How's it going everyone and welcome to
my final video in the phases of price
series. So this video we are going to
discuss how to blend all the phases of
price together. So let's get into the
PDF. So if you watch my first four
videos in this series, you should have a
good understanding of the individual
phases of price. expansion, retracement,
consolidation, and reversal. But how do
they actually all blend together? Well,
let's go ahead and simplify this. So,
what do we actually want to focus on?
Well, it's going to always start with
expansion. So, if we are going from
expansion into retracement, that is a
continuation signature, and we'd want to
see expansion from that retracement. So,
you have expansion retracement into
another expansion. Now if we have
expansion into consolidation that can be
a continuation or a reversal signature
depending on if we manipulate or break
out of the range. So when we go
expansion to consolidation we're looking
for another expansion which will either
be that manipulation or a breakout for a
continuation. Now if we go from
expansion met with expansion that is a
reversal then we are looking for price
to continue in that direction after the
reversal. So when we form a reversal, we
want to look for a continuation or that
expansion following. When we have this
expansion again in each one of these
phases, then we're just going to restart
the process. So with this, I designed a
flowchart. So let's go over that. We are
always going to start with expansion. So
this is where we are going to begin. If
we go ahead and walk through the
scenarios, we can have expansion into
retracement, in which case we expand
again in the same direction. From here
we will then repeat the process coming
back up to expansion and looking for
that new phase. If we have expansion
into consolidation that's when we can
either get that manipulation which is
expansion opposite and then we can see
expansion met with that expansion
forming a reversal and then we go into a
new phase or we can have expansion
consolidation and then an expansion
again which is a breakout. Now if we
have expansion met with expansion that
is a reversal and that's where I come
back up to this flowchart and then look
for the next phase of price. So let's
take a look at this flowchart with the
given scenarios. So here you can see we
have expansion and then what do we have?
We have a retracement. So we have
expansion retracement. I want to see a
continuation. So another expansion again
in that same direction. Now if we have
expansion into consolidation that's
where we can get a continuation or a
reversal. So you can see we have
expansion down into a consolidation and
in this case we break out of that
consolidation. So we get expansion in
the same direction and then I want to
look for the next phase of price. Here
we retrace and then continue lower.
Right? So we break out of that range.
Here you can see we have expansion
consolidation and then we get expansion
opposite. Right? So expansion
consolidation expansion. Is this met
with expansion or a retracement? We have
expansion opposite. So that is a
reversal. Expansion consolidation
expansion opposite met with expansion
forming this lower time frame reversal.
And then we have that continuation or
that expansion following. When we have
expansion met with an expansion where I
discussed in the previous video that is
a reversal. So you can see we expand
higher that is met with expansion lower
and that is a reversal. Then I would go
into using expansion and finding the
next phase of price. So what does that
look like with blending all the phases
of price together? Here you can see we
have expansion lower. Then I'm getting
into a new phase of price. Is it going
to be consolidation retracement or a
reversal or expansion against? Here you
can see we get a slow shallow move
higher and then we go and close below
that series of up close candles. So that
is a retracement. So we have expansion
retracement. I'd want to see another
expansion or a continuation of this
move. Here you can see we expand lower
then we get a consolidation. So I'm
looking do I have an expansion over the
high when I can look for a reversal to
trade it lower or do I have a breakout
of that low. Here you can see we have a
consolidation and then we expand below
that low. But then I want to see do we
retrace, consolidate or reverse. Here
you can see we have a little
consolidation, we manipulate the low and
then expand higher. So this is a
reversal. Expansion met with expansion.
That's going to form a higher time frame
wick. Now we have expansion. I want to
see do we get a retracement,
consolidation or reversal. Here you can
see we get three down candles. That
would be either a retracement or a
reversal. If I don't know, I can let
some more candles print to tell me. Here
you can see on this next closure, we get
a nice bullish candle so I can
anticipate this to be a expansion into
retracement to continue higher with a
new expansion. And once we close over
those series of downlosed candles into
an important level, we create a
protected low that I can trade away
from. So now we have expansion, new
phase of price, we have consolidation.
What do we get this time? we get a
manipulation or an expansion against the
move. So we go expansion, consolidation,
expansion against this is met with
expansion against as well and that is a
reversal and from that reversal we
expand higher. So we get that
continuation move. So let's get into the
charts and go over a few examples of
this in trading view. So here we are in
our first example. And before we begin,
I'm on the hourly chart as that is what
I tend to use with the daily closures
and my daily bias. I want to blend the
phases of price with a daily bias
because that then allows me to determine
what I actually want to see. So for
instance, here we have expansion into
consolidation. If I was bearish, then I
want to see a manipulation of the highs
to trade it lower. Because I am bullish,
I want to see a manipulation of the lows
to trade it higher or a breakout of the
highs, a retracement, and then a
continuation. So that is why it's
important to blend with your daily bias.
But let's get into this example. So we
have expansion and then a consolidation.
So we want to wait for expansion in one
direction. Here you can see we get
expansion into this low and expansion
out. Now I can anticipate this move,
right, and trade this. However, if I'm
not in this move before these highs are
taken, I'm going to want to wait for a
continuation signature if I'm trying to
trade this higher. So, we have
expansion. Do we get a retracement, in
which case I can find a protected swing,
a continuation entry to trade it higher?
Do we get a consolidation in which case
I can look for a manipulation of the low
to trade it higher similar to this? Or
do we get a reversal in which case this
low is anticipated to get taken out?
So with a few candles we have expansion
met with expansion. So this is a higher
time frame wick as you can see here and
I'd want to see this low taken out. Now
as you can see if we are expanding I
don't want to see price retrace that
much. I just want to see it go. So
letting this play forward
here. You can see we go and take out
this low and we never get that closure
over the down close candles for a
continuation signature. Now I'm not
going to just switch my bias because of
this. I'm still bullish as I determined
earlier in the day. So if we have
expansion through a low, I'd want to see
what the only way to form a reversal is
to get expansion opposite. And there we
do get expansion opposite. So we have
expansion met with an expansion, which
is a reversal. So now I'd want to see a
continuation higher.
And there we do get a continuation
higher at the new day. So letting this
continue, what do we have now? We have
expansion into what? A consolidation.
Right? We are not going anywhere. We are
stuck inside this candle's range here.
So let's see what happens
here. We expand through this high. But
what happens? Do we get a retracement, a
consolidation or a reversal? You can see
how we are taking out this previous
high, not respecting the previous EQ or
this opposing candle. So expansion met
with an expansion. I'm anticipating this
to be a reversal to at least go take out
this consolidation low. And then we can
look and see what it looks like to trade
it lower.
And you can see it fails to push back
higher showing its weakness. And then we
are running for this low here. You can
see how we have expansion consolidation.
We have that expansion in line with this
current trend met with an expansion
which is a reversal. Then that
continuation. So let's see here. Here
you can see we get a lower time frame
retracement into a fair value gap.
That's all that is. But we continue to
expand lower.
Now we have a nice candle closure here.
But there is no change in the state of
delivery yet. Right? I want to pair this
with the daily open high low close. So
taking a look at this we are doing what
we have had expansion now into a
consolidation.
So taking a look at this consolidation.
Let's see what occurs.
and you'll see why continuation days are
generally easier. But here you can see
we take out the low. Are we going to
trade the high? Well, I want to see if
we close through the series of down
close candles. You can see how I'm
blending the protected swings with the
phases of price and the daily closures.
And you can see we test this level
numerous times, but we never can close
over it. And we are actually sweeping
and getting some reversals in the other
direction. So there we get an expansion
lower retracement expansion. Right? So
this is the most clear part of this move
here into the late New York session. So
if we go ahead and just remove all these
drawings here, you can see we had
expansion, a consolidation. We failed to
manipulate this low and traded higher.
So it just failed lower. So expansion is
this going to be met with a retracement
into this fair value gap in which case
it can trade lower. Is this going to
consolidate? In which case, we can look
for a high to trade it lower or a low to
trade it higher. Or it can just break
out like that,
right? Or are we going to get expansion
met with expansion and a reversal? We
don't know until we get a few candle
closures. And right there, we have
expansion met with an expansion. You can
see we're still in this daily candle. I
want to pair it with the phases of
price, the daily candle closures, and
protected swings. Now you can see we're
getting that change in the state of
delivery. Has this daily candle closed?
Yes, it did. So now we have what? A
daily candle closure that tells us a
reversal. A change in the state of
delivery that tells us reversal as well
as paired with that expansion met with
an expansion which is also saying
reversal. So if we want to see a
continuation here, what do we want to
see? We want to see either a
consolidation to then run the low, trade
higher, consolidation to break out or a
retracement to trade it higher. When is
this invalidated this idea? Well, if we
have expansion met with expansion, then
this low gets taken out. So, let's see
what happens.
We get a nice slow shallow move that is
then paired with the intraday change in
the state of delivery and I can look to
trade this higher. You can see we go
from expansion, retracement. What do we
look for after retracement? Expansion.
So, letting this continue,
we now have that daily closure. So,
expansion, we're now looking for a new
phase of price. Once again, if we're
expecting a continuation signature
because of the daily closure outside the
range, I really want to see a
retracement to continue higher or a
consolidation to run out the low and
then trade it higher. If we frame a
reversal off previous day high, that
then invalidates it for me. It is not
aligned with my bias.
So you can see we get a nice slow
shallow move lower.
And if you take a look, we have
expansion here. That's that fake move
met with expansion also pairing with the
closure. Once again, you see how the
daily bias, the phases of price, the
equilibrium, the closures, protected
swings, they all line up to say long
here. So letting this continue, we get
an expansion. Now let's take another
look at this. If we are going to
continue this trade higher, where is our
target? This high. So knowing that, we'd
ideally want to see price continue until
there. Because as we learned about in
our reversal video, reversals occur at
highs and lows that are relevant. So I'm
not expecting price to just reverse
here. So let's see what happens. We can
see here we have a retracement into a
fair value gap. Do we close over this?
If we do, we can anticipate this low to
hold as it trades higher.
And you can see it's taking a long time
to close over this. So that point it is
consolidation. So instead of looking for
that, I then shift my focus to looking
for a low to be ran out. So for me,
price can just expand higher through
here, right? But I'm demanding a run of
a low if I'm trying to get long in here.
And you can see, does it ever sweep out
these lows? No. So, there's nothing for
me to get on side with there. And in
this case, this may be a move that I
just miss. I'm not going to catch this
long because it doesn't form a protected
swing for me. There's a few things you
can do intraday. You can see it's not
very clean. This is something that my
system prevents me from catching, but
that's fine cuz I can catch these clean,
easy continuation moves. Now, taking a
look here, we're going to go ahead and
replay. We go take out this high. Now,
why do I want to align my daily closures
with the phases of price? Well, our
phases of price say, "Hey, we took out a
high. We took out this short-term high
as well, and we have a change in the
state of delivery. This is a reversal,
right?" Well, yes, it would be, but for
me, I'm waiting for the daily closure to
also align, similar to how we did down
here. And what does this save me from?
It saves me from moves like this, where
yes, we had this reversal, but it's not
paired with the daily closure, right?
I'm trying to trade the reversal versus
the continuation. When I let this daily
closure align, now what do I notice? Now
I have that true change in the state of
delivery and I'm looking for a
continuation lower expansion met with an
expansion that's forming that daily
wick. We have the change in the state of
delivery. Expansion lower. I'm looking
for a continuation lower. Now, what do
we have? We have a retracement back up
into this range here. And this is
something I'm not a big fan of because
we already swept out the previous day
low, but I'm still bearish. Now, I don't
want to see price trade over the EQ. So,
really, this is the last area that I
want to see price form a high in or it's
invalid for me. I'm viewing this as
expansion. Still a retracement. Let's
see if we can expand again. No, we
don't. We get an invalidation. So, this
move I'm wrong on. It's something I'm
not going to catch because it doesn't
align with my daily bias and the phases
of price never told me there was a
reversal in here. Right, we have
expansion. We just consolidate in here
now. Clearing up the charts, we have a
new daily closure. And what does that
say? It says it's a candle 2 closure. I
can anticipate a continuation. Looking
at these phases of price here, right? We
have this expansion up. Is this a
retracement? Yes. But does it form a
protected swing? No. That means it's
then a consolidation. So, if I'm looking
for this next day to trade higher, I
want to see the run of a consolidation
low to trade it higher because that
would be expansion. Consolidation
expansion again met with expansion to
trade it higher.
Here you can see we run out that low. A
very slow move, but it does go take out
that previous day high. Do we get a
continuation following this? Well, look
for a protected swing in here. Do we
have one? We have a sweep of this low
close low close here. But I'd want to
see a low formed in here without taking
this if we're going to go trade to this
high over here. Let's see what happens.
We do get that. So, you can see I don't
need to always be correct. This day I
was wrong on. I let the daily closure
and then the phases of price realign me.
And then I can use protected swings,
closures, EQ, all of those concepts I've
talked about on my YouTube channel to
realign with the phases of price and the
direction that price is going. Now, I
will also use the phases of price on the
daily chart to align myself and wait for
the correct daily closures. So, you can
see here what did we have? We have this
reversal. We have expansion lower
through a low met with expansion higher.
You can see this fair value gap. Then we
have a consolidation. What do we do? We
run out the low in the consolidation. We
trade to the high in the consolidation.
So, we have this expansion into a high.
Are we going to get a new phase of
price? Well, we'd get a retracement, a
reversal, or a consolidation. At first,
this can look like either a retracement
or a reversal. However, this next day
stays inside bar. So, now this is a
consolidation. So, with a consolidation,
I can let another daily candle print and
tell me what. Okay, we just swept the
high in the consolidation. I can look to
trade this into the low of the
consolidation or lower to these failure
swings below. Now, this is when I can
drop down to the hourly chart and look
to blend this with the phases of price.
So, here on the hourly chart, you can
see we sweep out this high. And what is
that met with? Expansion met with an
expansion. A nice V-shaped reversal
forming that higher time frame wick. So,
marking out the change in the state of
delivery. What would we want to see in
here to trade it lower? Well, into the
new day, we'd want to see open, high,
low, close, right? Expansion,
retracement, continuation, right? So,
expansion, retracement, expansion. So,
as we let this get in here, I'm going to
go ahead and go to the 4hour chart
because you can also profile the day
with that. You can see we have expansion
lower. I want to see a retracement.
And what do we notice with this candle
here? It is sweeping out the previous,
failing to close above. So that's a
candle 2 closure. And if we're going to
the hourly chart, you can see that's
where we're starting to get a reversal,
right? So with this, I can drop down to
the 15-minute chart. And we'll go ahead
and use my model. So going into this
day, you can see we have a daily candle.
We have expansion. This is a very
shallow, slow move higher back into the
range, expansion, retracement. I want to
see another expansion. This 4hour candle
tells me that it is reversing. and I can
look for the next one to trade it lower
with this. I'm just going to use my
indicator and you can see it plots out
the reversal there. So, if I remove all
these drawings here, you can see this is
what it plots. I have a change in the
state of delivery. I have expansion met
with expansion that's forming that wick
and then I want to see a reversal and a
continuation lower in here. So this is
where I could look to get on side with
the move and put my stop on this high
and I can look for 2 R at a minimum or I
have projection targets or we can talk
about it after the move occurs. Let's
see. We do get this move lower.
Do we hit RTP? There we go. But if we
are anticipating the daily chart, if we
go back to the daily or we can go to the
hourly, we're anticipating this daily
candle to expand lower. Where are we
going to go to? our previous days low or
previous days lows. So with that, I
could also extend my targets to there
and get a further risk-to-reward trade.
But going back to our 15-minute chart,
that's what it looks like there is
blending the 4 hour and 15-minute model
with the daily. So you can see we use
the daily candle with the closure, the
phases of price to say I wanted to
short. We go into the hourly chart. You
see we have a V-shaped reversal here and
look at the phases of price. we have
expansion. I'm expecting this to retrace
and if I'm correct, get a continuation
lower here on the hourly. And then I can
go to the 15-minute or my preferred
entry time frame and then wait for my
model to occur to get on side with that
bias. And you can see how we blend all
of those things together. So let's take
a look at blending the phases of price
on the daily chart to get a bias with a
daily closure and then finding a lower
time frame entry with that and the
phases of price intraday. So you can see
here we have had expansion higher and
now we are in a consolidation. So
marking out the high and the low of the
consolidation. If I am still bullish
which I am I want to see a run of the
low to trade higher or a breakout of the
high, a retracement to continue higher.
So you can see we do get a reversal off
this high. It doesn't really go
anywhere, right? It can't get a closure
below this previous low.
And you can see it's a bit messy in
there. Here we finally do get a nice
little closure off that high. So we
could look to see this trade to this low
that we are looking for. And there we
go. Trade to this low. So is there
opportunities in here to trade lower?
Yes, we could trade lower on this day or
on this reversal day. But if I want to
align it with my bias on the higher time
frames, I'm waiting for this low to get
taken out to then trade this higher. So
looking for that to trade higher, we do
get that. Now if you look here, we have
expansion through a range high. I could
look for a new phase of price. So either
a retracement, a reversal, or a
consolidation. On this first day, I
could be looking for that with the daily
closure. It fails. On this next day, I
could be looking for the same thing.
Either a retracement back into the fair
value gap to continue higher or a
reversal. Let's see what happens. There
we go. We do get that retracement into
this fair value gap here. So, if we have
expansion, a retracement with the daily
closure, I'm expecting an expansion
again. So, I could look to get on side
there. Now, we have expansion through
these highs. I could be looking for a
retracement here. What happens? It just
trades higher. Right now, at this point,
we are expanding. I want to see a new
phase of price. So, I want to see a
retracement, reversal or a
consolidation. Ideally, retracement or
reversal as that is where I can get
inside. Here you can see we take out a
previous day high, close inside. I can
be looking short on the next day. This
is where I can drop down to my hourly
chart for our example here. And you can
see it is a bit messy with the gap, but
not everything is going to be perfect.
But if we take a look, we have a
short-term high here gets taken out. We
can use this whole series up as the
change in the state of delivery and we
have expansion little retracement
expansion again. So if we're
anticipating price to continue lower,
what do we want to see? Ideally, a
shallow move higher to then trade it
short in the following day. So let's
see.
You can see we open, we have a nice slow
move higher, right? That's what we want
to see generally.
You can see this is trading a bit higher
than we generally want, but we did have
a stronger close on the previous day.
So, it's not that deep of a move. And we
can take a look and we are starting to
get a nice little reversal here. We can
check the 4hour chart. And what do we
notice? We have price sweeping out this
previous high and then closing back
lower. So, at this 10:00 a.m. candle, we
could be looking for short setups. Let's
go to my 15-minute chart and we'll pull
up my indicator. And so you can see at
this 4hour candle closure here, we have
a bearish bias. We're assuming this to
be a retracement on the higher time
frame right here to expand back lower.
So we want to mark out our protected
swings. Where are those? Well, we have a
new one right here because of the SMT
on this high here.
There.
And you can see that if we go ahead and
shift to NQ, you can see how it has
taken out that high. So with that, I now
have a protected swing. I have an area
I'm looking for price to trade. This is
where I can take an entry. I can take my
entry in here. Want to put my stop on a
protected swing. Now, this gives me not
very great risk-to-reward. I can still
use the bodies here to give me 2 R cuz I
don't anticipate it to trade higher than
the bodies there. Let this continue out.
We do hit 2 R and we go quite a bit
lower, but that is my minimum
requirement for a trade. So, just to
review, we can go back out to our daily
chart here. You can see we have price
expanding away, looking to trade it back
into the range. We have price closing
back inside the previous day high, which
gives us a bias for this next day. We
can go to our 4hour chart, and you can
see on the 4hour chart, it's pretty
clear here. We have expansion, a
retracement, looking for a new expansion
again. When can that be determined?
Well, we can determine that when we get
a bearish closure on the 4hour chart.
So, bringing our charts back, we can go
to the 15-minute chart, and that's where
we can align it with the higher time
frame phases of price, the closures, the
EQ, protected swings, really everything
to in line top down, looking for this to
trade lower. Now, with this, we had a
great target at the daily open, those
session lows, but we can also target
that previous day low. So, you can get
pretty great risk-to-reward out of
something like that, but a minimum 2R
would put you right about there. Now,
before I end this video, I do want to
talk about an example, in which case I'm
not using the daily and the hourly or
the 4 hour. It is a fractal concept, so
I can use lower time frames. So, in this
case, my higher time frame will be the
hourly instead of the daily. And instead
of the hourly chart, I'll use the
five-minute chart for my intraday price
action or that lower time frame price
action. So you can see we are trending
down. We have expansion, retracement,
expansion, retracement, right? We're
getting these slow, shallow moves back
up. So when would I want to align myself
with this? Well, ideally I want to be
trading those expansion phases. I want
to wait for the retracement to end and
then once the expansion begins, that's
when I want to get on side. Now, how do
I personally do that? I wait for my
higher time frame closure to align with
that. Then when I have that change in
the state of delivery paired with it,
that's telling me that price has
reversed. We're exiting the retracement
phase and entering that new expansion.
So let's take a look here. You can see
we do get that closure. We have the
change in the state of delivery. I'm now
anticipating this retracement to have
ended and a new expansion to occur. And
you can see there we get a move lower.
Now an important thing to note if we are
going to get a reversal here what do we
want to see expansion into a low we
would want to see expansion met back at
this low that would create a reversal to
trade it higher. Now if we get a
retracement or a failure to go back into
this range that's when we can get a new
expansion lower expansion retracement
expansion or a consolidation. Those are
both continuation signatures. So you can
see what do we notice there? a very
shallow retracement. We can't go back in
this range, a bearish closure, and now
we can get this continuation back lower.
And you can see we're hitting these
expansion targets. Now, hopefully this
video helped. If there is anything that
isn't clear, please leave a comment in
the comment section below, and I'll do
my best to get back to you or use that
feedback for a future video to clarify
things. But with that said, I hope you
have a great rest of your day, and I'll
see you guys next time. Have a good one.